[←15.6. Configuring Simplification](The-Simplifier/Configuring-Simplification/#simp-config "15.6. Configuring Simplification")[16. The grind tactic→](The--grind--tactic/#grind-tactic "16. The grind tactic")
#  15.7. Simplification vs Rewriting[🔗](find/?domain=Verso.Genre.Manual.section&name=simp-vs-rw "Permalink")
Both `[simp](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#simp "Documentation for tactic")` and `[rw](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#rw "Documentation for tactic")`/`[rewrite](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#rewrite "Documentation for tactic")` use equational lemmas to replace parts of terms with equivalent alternatives. Their intended uses and their rewriting strategies differ, however. Tactics in the `[simp](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#simp "Documentation for tactic")` family are primarily used to reformulate a problem in a standardized way, making it more amenable to both human understanding and further automation. In particular, simplification should never render an otherwise-provable goal impossible. Tactics in the `[rw](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#rw "Documentation for tactic")` family are primarily used to apply hand-selected transformations that do not always preserve provability nor place terms in standardized forms. These different emphases are reflected in the differences of behavior between the two families of tactics.
The `[simp](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#simp "Documentation for tactic")` tactics primarily rewrite from the inside out. The smallest possible expressions are simplified first so that they can unlock further simplification opportunities for the surrounding expressions. The `[rw](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#rw "Documentation for tactic")` tactics select the leftmost outermost subterm that matches the pattern, rewriting it a single time. Both tactics allow their strategy to be overridden: when adding a lemma to a simp set, the `↓` modifier causes it to be applied prior to the simplification of subterms, and the `[occs](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#Lean___Meta___Rewrite___Config___mk "Documentation for Lean.Meta.Rewrite.Config.occs")` field of `[rw](Tactic-Proofs/Tactic-Reference/#rw "Documentation for tactic")`'s configuration parameter allows a different occurrence to be selected, either via a whitelist or a blacklist. 
[←15.6. Configuring Simplification](The-Simplifier/Configuring-Simplification/#simp-config "15.6. Configuring Simplification")[16. The grind tactic→](The--grind--tactic/#grind-tactic "16. The grind tactic")
